docs(contributing): add CONTRIBUTING.md file (#1)
algolia/instantsearch-e2e-tests: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing

> This repository contains the end-2-end test suite for [InstantSearch](https://github.com/algolia/instantsearch.js). These test suites are meant to be shared across all InstantSearch flavors, this is why they are stored in a separate repository.

Reviewer: Single test suite or several test suites? The two sentences differ.

## Development

### Requirements

To run this project, you will need:

- Node.js >= v8.10.0, use nvm - [install instructions](https://github.com/creationix/nvm#install-script)
- Yarn >= v1.16.0 - [install instructions](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install#alternatives-stable)

### Installation

> To easiest way to work on the tests is to link them into an InstantSearch project using [yarn link](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/cli/link).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The easiest way to work on the tests is to link them into an InstantSearch project using [`yarn link`](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/cli/link).
```

> First clone the `instantsearch-e2e-tests` repository, install it's dependencies and link it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, clone the `instantsearch-e2e-tests` repository, install its dependencies and link it.
```

```sh
git clone git@github.com:algolia/instantsearch-e2e-tests.git
cd instantsearch-e2e-tests
yarn
yarn link
```

> Then clone the `instantsearch.js` repository (or any other flavor), install it's dependencies and link the `instantsearch-e2e-tests`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, clone the [`instantsearch.js`](https://github.com/algolia/instantsearch.js/) repository (or any other flavor), install its dependencies and link `instantsearch-e2e-tests`.
```

```sh
git clone git@github.com:algolia/instantsearch.js
cd instantsearch.js
yarn
yarn link instantsearch-e2e-tests
```

> You can now run your local end-2-end test suite using the `test:e2e:*` scripts from the InstantSearch project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now run your local end-2-end test suite using the `test:e2e:*` scripts from the InstantSearch project.
```

```sh
yarn test:e2e # Run the test suite on Chrome browser on your local machine
yarn test:e2e:saucelabs # Run the test suite on multiple browsers on the Sauce Labs service
```

> You can also run them with some [WebdriverIO](https://webdriver.io) options, for example to run a specific test in watch mode:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also run the tests with [WebdriverIO](https://webdriver.io) options. For example, to run a specific test in watch mode:
```

```sh
yarn test:e2e --spec pagination --watch
```

See [WebdriverIO CLI documentation](https://webdriver.io/docs/clioptions.html) for all available options.

### Writing tests

> We use [Webdriverio](https://webdriver.io) and [Jasmine](https://jasmine.github.io) to write the tests. Webdriverio will be used to control the browser (navigate, select elements, clicks, etc.) while Jasmine will be used to assert the results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use [Webdriverio](https://webdriver.io) and [Jasmine](https://jasmine.github.io) to write the tests. Webdriverio is used to control the browser (navigate, select elements, clicks, etc.) while Jasmine is be used to assert the results.
```

> The tests must be stored in the `specs` directory and follow the `*.spec.ts` naming pattern. Each `*.spec.ts` file will be executed in a new WebDriver session and if possible in parallel (to the limit of the `maxInstances` configuration parameter in `wdio.*.conf.js`).

Reviewer: Perhaps link the `specs` directory.

> The tests must be stored in the [`specs`](specs) directory and follow the `*.spec.ts` naming pattern. Each `*.spec.ts` file will be executed in a new WebDriver session and if possible in parallel (to the limit of the `maxInstances` configuration parameter in `wdio.*.conf.js`).

Author: No, only .ts files are supported in the current configuration.

In general, you should try to test a single feature in one spec file. Try to not have too many or too few tests in one file. However, there is no golden rule about that.

> One spec file represent a scenario to test a behavior from a user point of view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One spec file represents a scenario to test a behavior from a user point of view.
```

Example of scenario:

> 1. Load the 'examples/e-commerce/' page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Load the `examples/e-commerce/` page
```

      'Shark - Navigator Lift-Away Deluxe Bagless Upright Vacuum - Blue',
      'LG - 1.5 Cu. Ft. Mid-Size Microwave - Stainless Steel',
      'Insignia™ - 5.0 Cu. Ft. Chest Freezer - White',
      'Samsung - activewash 4.8 Cu. Ft. 11-Cycle High-Efficiency Top-Loading Washer - White',
      'Samsung - 4.8 Cu. Ft. 11-Cycle High-Efficiency Top-Loading Washer - White',
      'LG - 2.0 Cu. Ft. Full-Size Microwave - Stainless Steel',
      'Shark - Rotator Professional Lift-Away HEPA Bagless 2-in-1 Upright Vacuum - Red',
      'LG - 4.5 Cu. Ft. 8-Cycle High-Efficiency Top-Loading Washer - White',
      'Samsung - 4.2 Cu. Ft. 9-Cycle High-Efficiency Steam Front-Loading Washer - Platinum',
      'Panasonic - 1.3 Cu. Ft. Mid-Size Microwave - Stainless steel/black/silver',
      'LG - 2.0 Cu. Ft. Mid-Size Microwave - Black Stainless',
    ]);
  });
});
```

General guidelines when writing tests:

- Each step should be translated as a `it` function, while this is not mandatory it helps to make the scenario more readable and properly [separate each actions in Sauce Labs reports](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13209/62311104-56217d80-b48b-11e9-94dc-3c18b9ddc2af.png).

> - All actions on the browser are asynchronous, so be sure to always `await` them. **Never run multiple asynchronous commands in parallel as it can confuse some browsers (Internet Explorer)**.

Reviewer 2: Is using await really necessary in our case? Since we're using the bakedin [test runner](https://github.com/algolia/instantsearch-e2e-tests/blob/master/package.json#L57) await is implicit:

https://webdriver.io/docs/setuptypes.html#the-wdio-testrunner

It can still be something we want to enforce anyway

Author: Yeah, I'm not sure their documentation is correct since all the commands still returns Promises  and I had some issues when not using `await` :neutral_face:.

But it should be enforced by the [`@typescript-eslint/no-floating-promises`](https://github.com/typescript-eslint/typescript-eslint/blob/master/packages/eslint-plugin/docs/rules/no-floating-promises.md) ESLint rule so we should not have any problem with this.

> - If possible use helper functions, for readability but also for maintainability (if one widget is updated we only have to updates its helpers without touching the tests). [More about Helpers](#helpers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use helper functions when possible, for readability but also for maintainability (if one widget is updated, we only have to updates its helpers without touching the tests). [More about Helpers](#helpers).
```

- Do not make assertions to know if an action was correctly performed in the browser. If an action fails (trying to click on an non-existing element for example) then WebdriverIO will automatically throw and fail the test, so asserting on it ourselves is redundant.

> - Only assert on what you want to see on the page after an action (Is this element displayed? Is the result list correct? etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Only assert what you want to see on the page after an action (Is this element displayed? Is the result list correct? etc.)
```

> - Only assert what you want to see on the page after an action (Is this element displayed? Is the result list correct? etc.)

Reviewer 2: Great advice.
However for the particular case of "is the element displayed?" I think it falls in the category of things wdio automatically waits for and throws if KO: 
Another way to say it is:
Instead of `expect(browser.$$('div').length).to.be(1)` use https://webdriver.io/docs/api/element/waitForDisplayed.html

- You may need to add some additional steps compared to the original scenario, to wait for some elements to update for example (this was not done in the example above for simplicity).

### Helpers

> A library of helpers is available in the `helpers` directory and are grouped by widget in the `helpers/index.ts` file.

Reviewer: Perhaps link the directory and file.

These helpers are here to simplify the writing of tests, their readability and their maintenance. You are strongly encouraged to use them in your tests and to contribute to the helpers library.

You can find more information about helpers in [WebdriverIO documentation](https://webdriver.io/docs/customcommands.html#adding-custom-commands).

## Release

This project uses [AngularJS's commit message convention](https://github.com/angular/angular.js/blob/master/DEVELOPERS.md#-git-commit-guidelines) with [Commitizen](http://commitizen.github.io/cz-cli/).

### Commit current changes

```sh
yarn commit
```

### Release a new version

```sh
yarn version
```

### Updating dependents projects

> This package is not published on the npm registry, so to update it in an InstantSearch project run the following command in it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This package is not published on the npm registry. To update the test suite in an InstantSearch project, run the following command in it:
```

> This package is not published on the npm registry. To update the test suite in an InstantSearch project, run the following command in it:

Author: Even for dependencies pointing directly to a GitHub repository https://github.com/algolia/instantsearch.js/pull/4035/files#diff-b9cfc7f2cdf78a7f4b91a753d10865a2R119 ?

Would be great if that the case.

> This package is not published on the npm registry. To update the test suite in an InstantSearch project, run the following command in it:

Reviewer 3: I think so, but I can't find info for it in the renovate docs. cc @rarkins :)

> This package is not published on the npm registry. To update the test suite in an InstantSearch project, run the following command in it:

Reviewer 3: I think so, but I can't find info for it in the renovate docs. cc @rarkins :)
